# v1

## Index

- [PriorityClass](#priorityclass)
- [PriorityClassList](#priorityclasslist)


## Schemas

### PriorityClass

PriorityClass defines mapping from a priority class name to the priority integer value. The value can be any valid integer.

#### Attributes

**apiVersion** *required* *readOnly*

`"scheduling.k8s.io/v1"`

APIVersion defines the versioned schema of this representation of an object. Servers should convert recognized schemas to the latest internal value, and may reject unrecognized values. More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#resources

**description**

`str`

description is an arbitrary string that usually provides guidelines on when this priority class should be used.

**globalDefault**

`bool`

globalDefault specifies whether this PriorityClass should be considered as the default priority for pods that do not have any priority class. Only one PriorityClass can be marked as `globalDefault`. However, if more than one PriorityClasses exists with their `globalDefault` field set to true, the smallest value of such global default PriorityClasses will be used as the default priority.

**kind** *required* *readOnly*

`"PriorityClass"`

Kind is a string value representing the REST resource this object represents. Servers may infer this from the endpoint the client submits requests to. Cannot be updated. In CamelCase. More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#types-kinds

**metadata**

`ObjectMeta`

Standard object's metadata. More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#metadata

**preemptionPolicy**

`str`

preemptionPolicy is the Policy for preempting pods with lower priority. One of Never, PreemptLowerPriority. Defaults to PreemptLowerPriority if unset.

**value** *required*

`int`

value represents the integer value of this priority class. This is the actual priority that pods receive when they have the name of this class in their pod spec.

### PriorityClassList

PriorityClassList is a collection of priority classes.

#### Attributes

**apiVersion** *required* *readOnly*

`"scheduling.k8s.io/v1"`

APIVersion defines the versioned schema of this representation of an object. Servers should convert recognized schemas to the latest internal value, and may reject unrecognized values. More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#resources

**items** *required*

`[PriorityClass]`

items is the list of PriorityClasses

**kind** *required* *readOnly*

`"PriorityClassList"`

Kind is a string value representing the REST resource this object represents. Servers may infer this from the endpoint the client submits requests to. Cannot be updated. In CamelCase. More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#types-kinds

**metadata**

`ListMeta`

Standard list metadata More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#metadata

<!-- Auto generated by kcl-doc tool, please do not edit. -->
